Skills for Claude Code and other AI Agents (#4)
rudolfolah/profiling-code: .claude/skills/python-dtrace-profiling/SKILL.md

Author: All the references to Python 3.11 and `.python-version` should be removed. [DTrace has been supported since Python 3.6](https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/tracing-python-with-dtrace).

Author: d6253c784057679be9718265725f1015b4277abf

# Python DTrace Profiling Skill

> Use this skill when you need an event-by-event view of CPython execution on macOS: Python function entry/return events, source-line events, and their ordering in a real process. This repository's DTrace programs are `python/call_stack.d` and `python/lines.d`; run them from the `python/` directory against `program.py`.

Author: The skill should not reference those files or they should be added as supporting files in the skill.

```suggestion
Use this skill when you need an event-by-event view of CPython execution on macOS: Python function entry/return events, source-line events, and their ordering in a real process.
```

DTrace is **instrumentation tracing**, not a replacement name for every Python profiler. It observes CPython's static probes and prints a timestamped text stream. Use `cProfile`/`yappi` for function call timing, `pyinstrument` for sampled call stacks, `tracemalloc`/`memray`/`guppy3` for Python memory behavior, and `psutil` for process resource snapshots. DTrace is useful when the exact sequence and nesting of interpreter events matters.

## When to use it

Choose DTrace when you need to answer questions such as:

- Which Python functions were entered and returned around a particular operation?
- Which source lines in `program.py` executed, and in what order?
- Did an event happen before or after another event in the running process?
- Are native/interpreter-level boundaries relevant, rather than only an aggregate profile?

Do not start with DTrace for a broad “what is slow?” question. Begin with the repository's lower-overhead or purpose-built profilers, then use a short DTrace run to explain a specific behavior. DTrace output is raw and often needs filtering or aggregation after the run.

## Prerequisites: an instrumented Python

> The checked-in `.python-version` is **3.11.5**. DTrace probes are not enabled in an ordinary prebuilt Python. CPython must be configured and compiled with `--with-dtrace`; this also applies when the interpreter is built in a Docker image. `--with-dtrace` is a build-time option, not a flag that can be added to `python3.11` later.

Author: ```suggestion
DTrace probes are not enabled in an ordinary prebuilt Python. CPython must be configured and compiled with `--with-dtrace`; this also applies when the interpreter is built in a Docker image. `--with-dtrace` is a build-time option, not a flag that can be added to `python` at run-time.
```
